---
layout: 'blogpost.liquid'
title: Favorites of 2023
img: /img/favorites-of-2022/animalCrossing.webp
date: 2024-01-07
tags: blog
---



{% capture books %}
- The Betrothed
- The Books of Jacob
- The Last Samurai
- The Master and Margarita
- The Three Musketeers
- Seven Steeples
- The Wind in the Willows
- As You Like It
- Persuasion
- My Brilliant Friend
- Da Vinci Code
- Mistborn
- Chilean Poet
{% endcapture %}


{% capture movies %}
- The Leopard
- Michael Clayton
- Afire
- All of Us Strangers
- King Kong
- Mission Impossible: Dead Reckoning: Part 1
- Aftersun
- Wes Anderson shorts
- Poor Things
- Saathiya
{% endcapture %}

<!-- INTRO -->
{% capture intro %}
I am getting to this quite late, but I wanted to take some time to reflect on the past year, and the favorite things I encountered in it. In the past I've avoided the temptation to reduce my praises to a measly "top ten." How dare we prune our love for mathematical simplicity, I said! How dare we quantify our hearts! 

But I watched the gamer potluck goty stream and (big inhale) to be honest it seemed kind of fun. Perhaps I am committing an evil. Perhaps I am corrupting my heart, mathemetizing the unknowable depths of a soul, falling prety to the ruins of a human-less numbered existence!!!!

But here is my top ten :)
{% endcapture %}
{% render "blog/paragraphs.liquid" text: intro %}


<!-- ============================================================== -->
<!-- ==========    GAMES WRITE UPS     ============================ -->
<!-- ============================================================== -->

{% capture games %}
- super mario 64
- uncharted 2
- taiko no tatsujin

- Seiklus
- tomb raider
- Fly Guy
- Small Worlds

- cyberpunk 2077
- the impossible quiz
- Aisle

- the fran play series
- WATCH HOW MY DUCK FLIES
- Pocketful of Stars
- snowboard kids

honorable mentions:
5. frog up
10. pogo 3D
11. the Finding of Your Lingering Warmth
15. balloon-boy  500
16. play mario
{% endcapture %}

{% render "blog/header.liquid" text: 'Favorite Games' %}

<!-- intro -->
{% capture gamesIntro %}
Okay actually I immediately failed because I couldn't reduce the games to a clean 10...Just ignore that. Pretend it all adds up  to 10. Pretend each of these are increments not of "1" but of "0.71428571428" (you have a calculator on hand, right?). Okay! Without further ado, my favorite games:
{% endcapture %}


<!-- snowboard kids -->
{% capture snowboardKids %}
This year I played a lot of older games. Part of this is cause-and-effect. I took a class on 2000-2008 flash games, and it got me interested in the era, in going back to these older, forgotten, discarded games, and giving them a fair shake. It was quite exciting. Many of them feel very fresh, in an environment that has adopted wholly new aesthetics, mechanically preferences, etc. Many of the just-released AAA games feel not very exciting to me. This is something I like! I truly wish I could get into them -- clearly they are exciting to so many people -- but I suppose many of them feel like they are circling around the same themes, the same mechanical ideas, piggybacking off of what's likely to lead to profit (maybe I am being too cynical, I hope that I am). 

In any case, I've been playing a lot of older games. They're really exciting to me. I played snowboard kids on one night, and its kind of wonky racing mechanics, its gorgeous environments, its playful spirit...I really liked it. To be honest, I don't know how "exciting" it really is. I think it's one that, for whatever, just stuck with me. It has a real warmth for me, in a way I don't fully know how to describe. But I think of those tracks, those skyboxes, the joy of racing, and I feel so grateful for my time here. 
{% endcapture %}